% Authoring Tips
% John Gabriele

If you're not sure where to begin, do this:

~~~bash
cd my-project
touch README.md
mkdir doc
cd doc
touch getting-started.md tutorial.md examples.md changes.md
~~~

Regarding those md files:

../README.md
  : Required, but you probably already have this. Should be your
    project's overview. Explain what your project is, what it does,
    and why folks would want to use it.  The content will render as
    the "front page" of your project's docs.  If you prefer, you can
    have ../README.md be minimal, and instead put the bulk of the
    overview material into a doc/index.md file.

getting-started.md
  : How to install, set up, and get a hello-world example working.

tutorial.md
  : For now can just be a walkthrough: detailed instructions, start to
    finish, on how to use some basic feature(s) of your project.

examples.md
  : Be sure to use syntax highlighting for your code snippets. If you
    have a lot of examples, skip the examples.md file and instead
    create an examples *directory* which you can then populate with
    *this-feature*.md and *that-feature*.md files. Likewise if you
    have multiple tutorials!

changes.md
  : It's much appreciated by this reader if you'd please include dates
    along with the version numbers. In this doc, summarize user-facing
    changes; if readers are interested in seeing individual *code*
    changes, they can always look at the version control logs.

Other ideas for documents you (or potential contributors) might write:

  * __cheatsheet.md__
  * __quick-ref.md__
  * __manual.md__ (though, for a comprehensive manual, consider using
    multiple manual files in their own doc/manual subdirectory)
  * __reference.md__ (though, for software libraries, this is may be taken
    care of by autogenerated API docs)
