% Rationale and Benefits
% John Gabriele

It can be difficult to find good documentation. Some reasons for this
include:

  * the developer is busy with other things and hasn't yet made time
    to create or improve the docs
  * the developer doesn't like or isn't familiar with the available
    doc formats and/or tools
  * users were not helping improve the docs and the developer lost
    interest in doing it all him/herself
  * the developer isn't very good at writing docs, and ends up
    avoiding writing them
  * some good docs were written once, but no one pitched in and they
    got out of date
  * writing a full manual is a daunting task and takes a lot of
    motivation to get started
  * the developer doesn't want to get tied down to any one particular
    language-, project-, or technology-specific doc format or toolset
  * the developer simply doesn't like writing docs, and the job
    keeps getting pushed to the bottom of the todo list

But without good docs you won't have many happy users; and without
*them*, projects tend to flounder.

Rippledoc aims to remedy the situation. Here's how:

 #. It's particularly easy to use. You just create a `doc` directory,
    write some docs as simple text files, then run the script. Except
    for creating a "_copyright" file and making sure the docs have
    titles, there's **zero extra work required** (you can optionally
    change the order your docs appear in the autogenerated toc.conf
    file). You don't have to spend your time reading a manual or
    learning how to configure anything --- just run the script, upload
    your docs to the web, and you've something workable that can start
    to grow.

 #. Your docs are formatted in Markdown (specifically [Pandoc-flavored
    Markdown](http://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown)).
    Pretty much everyone already knows Markdown (it's used on Reddit,
    Stackoverflow, GitLab, GitHub, Discourse forums, in blogs and in
    their commenting systems, and for most README's). Potential
    contributors will not have to learn any new markup formats or
    complicated tools to contribute to your docs; they can just edit
    the text file and submit the pull-request --- a minimal barrier to
    entry for potential contributors.

    Another benefit of using Markdown in particular is that it looks
    excellent as plain text in your editor. Very easy to read, easy to
    write, and easy syntax to remember. See the [quick markdown
    example](quick-markdown-example.html).

 #. It's very easy for potential contributors to [install
    Rippledoc](./install.md) so that they can preview their more
    substantial contributions.  Failing that, they could even preview
    their changes by copying/pasting into [an online Pandoc Markdown
    processor](http://pandoc.org/try/). Or they could even wing it,
    since Markdown is quite easy to get right on the first try.

 #. With Rippledoc, your docs are typically bite-sized aptly-named
    text files.  This helps lower the procrastination barrier; you
    (and potential contributors) can start small. Write a small
    ../README.md and maybe an examples.md file, run Rippledoc, and
    immediately get some results that you can make available. If
    unsure of where to start, see [authoring
    tips](authoring-tips.html).

    This also, again, lowers the barrier for potential contributors. A
    collaborator can send you a single text file which could simply be
    dropped into your docs directory to automatically become a new
    article in your docs.

 #. Since they're just static html (and md) files, to make the docs
    available online, you rsync/ftp/scp/upload your whole docs
    directory to your webserver or wherever the docs are hosted. Some
    module repositories, like Python's
    [Cheeseshop](http://cheeseshop.python.org), will [host plain html
    files like this for
    you](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PyPiDocumentationHosting).

 #. Finally, using Rippledoc *now* doesn't tie you to continued use of
    Rippledoc in the future; it's just a simple program that processes
    markdown files and stitches the output html together. If you
    decide you don't like Rippledoc after all, just delete the
    generated files and you're back to your plain directory of text
    files.
